our next guest is a brilliant filmmaker
from far away who
gave us hunt for the wilder people and
thor ragnarok among other gems next
he writes directs and stars in jojo
rabbit
poor jojo what's wrong little man
hi adolf want to tell me about that
rabbit incident
what was all that about they wanted me
to kill it
i'm sorry i couldn't don't worry about
it i couldn't care less
but now they call me a scared rabbit let
them say whatever they want
people used to say a lot of nasty things
about me oh this guy's a lunatic
oh look at that psycho he's gonna get us
all killed
jojo rabbit opens at select theaters on
friday please welcome
taika watiti
[Music]
how are you it's great to have you here
your movie is fantastic
it is funny it's uh it's heartwarming
it is instructive i think and
it is insane insane really i was hoping
because i was as i was watching it i was
like this is
there's a 10 year old nazi whose
imaginary friend is hitler
yeah adolf hitler yeah yeah the guy from
the
guy you know that yeah i know i know who
you're talking about you don't have to
explain it to me
and then i was wondering and then i was
wondering
what the pitch must have been like
because you have to go into a meeting
with a
big company and explain this to them how
did you explain this to them well i
learned very early on when i was writing
the script that there's
no real way to pitch this film you can't
you can't picture
this you can start i said to a friend of
mine when i was writing i said well i'm
working on the script i think it's going
to be really good
it's about a little boy in the hitler
youth and he said stop
not interested not interested in that
movie
you should not do this and so i just i
thought well i'm not going to pitch it
i'm just going to write the script and i
sent that around
yeah i didn't pitch i don't know i'm
from new zealand we're useless at
pitching i say insurance is that true
it'll be terrible the new zealish are
not good at pitching huh to new zealand
we're not good at knowing things about
other countries yeah so
uh words did you originally
uh have yourself in mind to play hitler
obviously
yeah yeah i think i'm probably the first
choice on many of the lists of uh
aryan characters or was that
well there was no intention of playing
the the character when i was writing it
again and then um i suppose i was trying
to make this film in about 2012 and
thinking about like you know who might
play this you know this role and uh
and then i got distracted when i made
three other movies and then came back to
it in 2017 fox searchlight
uh said look we've always loved the
script we want to make it with you uh
but only
under the condition that you play hitler
and i thought
fox searchlight must be trying to pull
the last jenga block out of the
tower of their company there's something
going on they're trying to collapse the
whole
fox empire so um and but then it made
sort of it sort of made sense to me that
in
in the end that this film you know at
its heart is um
you know about this relationship between
these two kids you know trying to like
foster some understanding and and
overcome this idea of intolerance and
hate and i feel like if you had a
massive celebrity playing hit they would
overshadow that
overshadow the importance and the power
of that story um
you know i think that because then if
you did it would then become
the you know the will smith hitler film
right
will hitler smith yeah yeah oh
hitler here we go i'm guessing you
didn't have a line of major celebrities
waiting to play hitler
no no cowards
take someone who has no career to uh to
really play
your mother is jewish your mother is
here was she supportive
of this idea of this movie yeah she was
actually going to she
she introduced me to to the book that i
um that inspired the film
and um she is here she's here yeah she's
here with you right there
yeah this is my brother yeah
by the way it would be funny hey take
you back
on if she traveled around with a little
mustache yeah
[Applause]
is it weird when you're acting you're
playing hitler
and it is weird and then you're yeah and
then you're
doing other things like directing and
you're dressed
as hitler yeah no i mean like when i
first
the first well the first time i put the
the costume on and the
little the the moustache yeah
and looked in the mirror and uh i mean
the sort of the
the main takeaway from that was just
feeling super embarrassed
and then um and then i went out and i
was on set and you know
you don't usually remember what you look
like you know throughout the day right
you forget you forget and so
i uh you know i've been talking to the
actors well that was amazing man so
why don't you just do it again uh and
this time i want you to go and
i can see something in their eyes like
just looking at my lip and they're
looking down at my
clothes and looking at my hair and then
i catch a little reflection of myself
ah yeah god oh that's right i'm like
that
okay well instead okay so in the second
thoughts you don't have to do what i say
it's not an order
no you just do what you want it's up to
you you're free you're
free you're a free actor to do what you
want this
is these are some pictures uh uh
assortment of photos that have been
posted on instagram
and also provided by people you know it
seems and you're really sleeping in that
picture huh
uh here's another one i love you asleep
on the job
it's good thing you're not an air
traffic controller because it seems
it seems that you are uh maybe
narcoleptic or something
that's my child's that's my child's
stroller
[Laughter]
is everything okay
you've dozed off here too
um you by the way i want to mention a
couple things
what we do in the shadows is now a
television show yeah for those who have
not seen that's a great movie that's how
i became free well we managed to to
stretch that two-minute joke of vampire
flatmates out to a movie and now two
seasons
that's tv show is great the movie was
great and
you directed thor ragnarok which was
surprisingly hilarious for
us for any movie but especially for a
marvel movie
you're working on the sequel to that yes
that's right i've just finished uh
a couple of drafts of that that story
will hitler be more
[Applause]
[Music]
there's uh well it's hopefully common
knowledge that natalie portman is coming
back
okay yeah she's playing uh
oh yeah she'll be playing a female
version
of of thor from it's from a comic run
where you know so there'll be two of
them
uh-huh okay and uh my character's coming
back
thank you thank you so much for that
reaction
wait until you see hitler you're really
gonna
jojo rabbit opens in select ears on
friday taiko
itidi everybody will wrap up with tom
york
congratulations on making it to the end
of a youtube video
why not celebrate by clicking the
subscribe button you earned it